
Hello guys, how are you doing? hope you all are having a great time and working towards your goal this year. I have been sharing a lot of courses and tutorials in this blog about what to learn this year, starting from tools to frameworks, from libraries to programming languages, but one of the most important technology, you can learn this year is the Blockchain technology.

It’s one of most talked about technology at the moment and considered to be the next big thing after the invention of the internet as they provide a way to attain digital trust on the Internet.

Though, I must say that crazy rally of cryptocurrencies has a huge role to play in making Blockchain popular. I know about Bitcoin for a long time but never invested in it and the same goes for Blockchain.

Even though I knew about it I never thought to learn Blockchain development and writing tutorials about it, until I realize this may be the time to learn Blockchain.

There is so much emphasis on Blockchain development as companies from finance, real estate, healthcare, and other sectors are very keen to learn about Blockchains and adopt them.

Venture capitalists are currently diverting a lot of investments into funding Blockchain-based companies, which means there could not be a better time to learn about Blockchain then this year, and there is no better way to start with free online courses.

In this article, I am going to share 5 free Blockchain technology courses, which will teach you the fundamentals of Blockchain, how it works, and how disruptive it can be. If you want to become a Blockchain developer then these courses will help you get started quickly.
7 Free Courses to Learn BlockChain Development

Here is my list of some of the free courses to learn Blockchain technologies and how to work with them.

These courses will not only teach you fundamentals and basics like what is BlockChain and how it works but also show you how to create a smart contract and your own private network.

The list also includes a course on writing the HelloWorld program using the Etherium network.
1. Blockchain Theory 101

This is a great introductory course about Blockchain and anyone who wants to learn about blockchain technology can join this course for free.

In this course, you will learn about blockchain technology (including mining, consensus algorithms, smart property, and smart contracts).

The instructor, Melanie Swan is also the author of a published book Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy which means she has a good knowledge of Blockchain.

The current status of blockchain technology, potential applications in Financial Services, Logistics, Healthcare, Energy, and IoT, and the next steps regarding its deployment in your organization.

Here is the link to sign up for FREE — Blockchain Theory 101
Image for post
Image for post
2. Enterprise Blockchain Fundamentals

This is another free course to learn Blockchain from business and real-world use perspective. In this free course on enterprise blockchain, you will get to learn how Blockchain can impact business and several real-life examples derived from interviews and research among corporate practitioners.

The course is very well structured and it’s like one lesson a day, 5 Days in a row. The Blockchain 101 courses are also well respected by employers like IBM, Capgemini, Cisco, Cognizant, and Wipro.

If you want to join the Blockchain revolution and gain valuable knowledge that will help you to advance your career then this course is an important first step and you should join it without any hesitation. It’s anyway free so you don’t have anything to lose but you will learn an in-demand skill to grow your career.

Here is the link to sign up for FREE —Enterprise Blockchain Fundamentals
Image for post
Image for post

Btw, If you re looking for a Blockchain Certification to kickstart your career in distributed ledge technology then I highly recommend Enterprise Blockchain Professional Certification by 101 Blockchains.

It’s trusted by organizations like IBM, Capgemini, Cisco, Cognizant, and Wipro. It’s a little bit expensive, cost around $357 but worth it, and due to the current global situation, they are also offering a discount now. You can use the code STAYHOME to get 30% OFF.
3. Blockchain Fundamentals

This is an awesome course to learn about Blockchain Fundamentals and Smart contract development from Pluralsight

In this course, you will first learn Ethereum blockchain, smart contract development, and how to create private blockchains.

The course is also very hands-on as you’ll learn how to set up the development environment and all pre-requirements from a clean Microsoft Windows image, which also makes it easy to follow the course.

Here is the link to sign up for FREE — Blockchain Fundamentals
Image for post
Image for post

After learning the basics, you’ll create a fully functional sample application. Your sample application is a distributed application that ensures a secure and trustworthy product lifecycle trail for batches of food, using blockchain technology.

After completing this course, you should be able to create your own blockchain contracts and distributed applications with a functional development environment that makes you productive for years to come.
4. Blockchain Basics by Coursera

This is one of the most popular courses to learn Blockchain basics on Coursera It is actually the first course of the Blockchain specialization that provides a broad overview of the essential concepts of blockchain technology.

In this Blockchain course, offered by University at Buffalo and The State University of New York, you will learn about the decentralized peer-to-peer network, an immutable distributed ledger, and the trust model that defines a blockchain.

This course will teach you basic components of a blockchain (transaction, block, block header, and the chain) its operations (verification, validation, and consensus model) underlying algorithms, and essentials of trust (hard fork and soft fork).

Content includes the hashing and cryptography foundations indispensable to blockchain programming, which is the focus of two subsequent specialization courses, Smart Contracts and Decentralized Applications (Dapps).

Here is the link to sign up for FREE — Blockchain Basics by Coursera
Image for post
Image for post

By the way, if you find Coursera courses useful, which they are because they are created by reputed companies like Google, IBM, Amazon, and best universities around the world, I suggest you join Coursera Plus, an annual subscription plan from Coursera.

This single subscription gives you unlimited access to their most popular courses, specialization, professional certificate, and guided projects. It cost around $399/year but its complete worth of your money as you get unlimited certificates.
Image for post
Image for post
5. Ethereum Development Course — Blockchain at Berkeley

This is a good, practical course to begin your journey with Ethereum Blockchain Development, where you will learn how to create a Hello World Blockchain app in no time.

This course is designed for programmers beginning their journey with Ethereum Blockchain Development and want to test their skills with a basic practical project before moving forward with more advanced Ethereum Development courses covering much more.

Here is the link to sign up for FREE — Ethereum Development Course — Blockchain at Berkeley
Image for post
Image for post

If you want to learn more about Etherium you can also join a more comprehensive course like Ethereum Developer Masterclass: Build Real-World Projects, which teaches the Ethereum development in more detail.

If you are interested more in developing with Etherium network then you can also look at that course.
6. Blockchain — Principles and Practices

This is another awesome course on Blockchain from Pluralsight which provides an overview of how this technology works with BitCoin and Ethereum or other providers.

In this course, you will start with the fundamental data structures and algorithms used to build a typical Blockchain and build up a working example over the course.

First, you will learn how to store single transactions in a block and later, you will discover how to store multiple transactions in a block using Merkle trees.

Here is the link to sign up for FREE — Blockchain — Principles and Practices
Image for post
Image for post

After that, you will be taught how to make the Blockchain tamper-proof using mining and proof-of-work. Finally, you will learn how nodes on a Blockchain maintain consensus.

After completing this course, you will have the knowledge and tools necessary to build your own Blockchain.

Btw, these Pluralsight courses are not free exactly. You will need a Pluralsight membership to access this course which costs around $29 per month and $299 for a year (14% discount).

If you can afford then that’s a great investment as you gain access to over 5000+ courses on the latest technology but if you can’t don’t disappoint. You can still get free access to this course by signing up for a 10-days free trial.
Pluralsight Subscription Plans and Pricing: Monthly and Annual
How much does Pluralsight cost? Find monthly and annual subscription plan pricing here. Don't put your tech skills on…
pluralsight.pxf.io
7. Blockchain Technology by edX

This is a great free course to learn Blockchain technology on edX. It is developed by Blockchain at Berkeley and faculty from UC Berkeley’s premier Computer Science department, this course provides a wide overview of many of the topics relating to and building upon the foundation of Bitcoin and blockchain technology.

You will learn a formal definition of distributed consensus and foundational topics such as the CAP Theorem and the Byzantine Generals Problem.

You will also explore various enterprise-level blockchain implementations, such as JP Morgan’s Quorum, Ripple, Tendermint, and HyperLedger, including the industry use cases for blockchain, ICOs, and the increasing regulations surrounding blockchain.

Here is the link to sign up for FREE — Blockchain Technology by edX
Image for post
Image for post

Like other Coursera and edX courses, this course is also free for learning and you need to pay if you require a verified certificate.
8. Introduction to Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain

This course is more interesting for all of those who get excited about the name of BitCoin and other cryptocurrencies. Well, there is nothing wrong with that. Most of us only get to know about Blockchain because of those cryptocurrencies and their phenomenal rise.

This course will teach you Blockchain by explaining cryptocurrency first, which will help you to better understand how Blockchain itself works and how it is different from the traditional model of the transaction.

Here is the link to sign up for FREE — Introduction to Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain
Image for post
Image for post

That’s all about some of the free courses to learn Blockchain technology. As I told, Blockchain development is getting a lot of focus because of its disruptive potential.

It’s not generating a lot of jobs yet but you can stay ahead of the curve by learning Blockchain right now.

Apart from programmers and developers, these courses are also great for anyone who wants to know what is a BlockChain and how it works like Business Analysts, Tech geeks, Project Managers, and QAs.

Other Free Online Courses You May like to explore

    15 Docker, Kubernetes, and AWS courses for Web Developers
    10 JavaScript Frameworks Web Developers Can Learn
    Top 5 Courses to learn Web Development
    My favorite free Courses to learn HTML and CSS
    5 Free Docker Courses for Frontend Developers
    7 Free Courses to learn SQL and Database for Beginners
    The Complete React.js Developer RoadMap
    10 Books and Courses to learn Angular in 2021
    10 Advanced Spring Boot Courses for Java Developers
    10 Free Courses to learn Spring Boot in 2021
    7 Courses to learn Microservices in Java with Spring Boot
    My favorite courses to learn Spring Boot
    My favorite free JavaScript tutorials for Beginners

Thanks for reading this article so far. If you like these free Blockchain courses then please share with your friends and colleagues. If you have any questions or feedback then please drop a note.

P. S. — If you just want to pursue one course then you can also take a look at a more comprehensive Blockchain A-Z™: Learn How To Build Your First Blockchain is the best course to start with.
Blockchain A-Z™: Learn How To Build Your First Blockchain
Learn key Blockchain concepts, intuition, and practical training to get you quickly up to speed with all things Crypto…
bit.ly

P.P.S. — If you're looking for a Blockchain Certification to kickstart your career in distributed ledge technology then I highly recommend Enterprise Blockchain Professional Certification. They are also offering a discount now. You can use the code STAYHOME to get 30% OFF.
Certified Enterprise Blockchain Professional
This course is specifically designed to guide you through the various aspects of blockchain technologies and how they…
academy.101blockchains.com
Javarevisited
Medium’s largest Java publication, followed by 9000+ programmers. Follow to join our community.

    Blockchain
    Blockchain Technology
    Technology
    Blockchain Development
    Programming

javinpaul

Written by
javinpaul
I am Java programmer, blogger, working on Java, J2EE, UNIX, FIX Protocol. I share Java tips on http://javarevisited.blogspot.com and http://java67.com
Javarevisited
Javarevisited
A humble place to learn Java and Programming better.
More From Medium
What is Decentralization?
Paul Lintilhac in digital homeostasis
Blockchain Is No Silver Bullet Against the Black Market
The Financial Times in Financial Times
Blockchain is not all about self-interest!
Teresa Kao in Activeledger
What Blockchain and Google Maps Have In Common And What We Can Expect Next?
Samantha Radocchia
Moving from Web2 to Web3: What Technical Improvements Are Needed?
Delton Rhodes in The Green Light
Blockchain for Personal Data Privacy in Healthcare
Kori Leon | Pharm.D in PikcioChain
Five ways to protect your privacy on blockchains
Felix Leber
Let’s make it clear, or Blockchain myths you probably believe
Ralabs
Learn more.
Medium is an open platform where 170 million readers come to find insightful and dynamic thinking. Here, expert and undiscovered voices alike dive into the heart of any topic and bring new ideas to the surface. Learn more
Make Medium yours.
Follow the writers, publications, and topics that matter to you, and you’ll see them on your homepage and in your inbox. Explore
Share your thinking.
If you have a story to tell, knowledge to share, or a perspective to offer — welcome home. It’s easy and free to post your thinking on any topic. Write on Medium
About
Help
Legal
By - Dheeraj Srivastava
